packages/pg-sql2/README.md, before:

# pg-sql2

Create SQL in a powerful and flexible manner without opening yourself to SQL
injection attacks using the power of ES6 tagged template literals.

A key aim of this library is to be very fast, if you think you can improve
performance further please open a PR!

<!-- SPONSORS_BEGIN -->

## Crowd-funded open-source software

To help us develop this software sustainably under the MIT license, we ask
all individuals and businesses that use it to help support its ongoing
maintenance and development via sponsorship.

### [Click here to find out more about sponsors and sponsorship.](https://www.graphile.org/sponsor/)

And please give some love to our featured sponsors 🤩:

<table><tr>
<td align="center"><a href="http://chads.website"><img src="https://graphile.org/images/sponsors/chadf.png" width="90" height="90" alt="Chad Furman" /><br />Chad Furman</a> *</td>
<td align="center"><a href="https://storyscript.com/?utm_source=postgraphile"><img src="https://graphile.org/images/sponsors/storyscript.png" width="90" height="90" alt="Storyscript" /><br />Storyscript</a> *</td>
<td align="center"><a href="https://postlight.com/?utm_source=graphile"><img src="https://graphile.org/images/sponsors/postlight.jpg" width="90" height="90" alt="Postlight" /><br />Postlight</a> *</td>
<td align="center"><a href="https://surge.io/"><img src="https://graphile.org/images/sponsors/surge.png" width="90" height="90" alt="Surge.io" /><br />Surge.io</a> *</td>
</tr></table>

<em>\* Sponsors the entire Graphile suite</em>

<!-- SPONSORS_END -->

## Usage

```js
const sql = require("pg-sql2");
// or import sql from 'pg-sql2';

const tableName = "user";
const fields = ["name", "age", "height"];

// sql.join is used to join fragments with a common separator, NOT to join tables!
const sqlFields = sql.join(
  // sql.identifier safely escapes arguments and joins them with dots
  fields.map(fieldName => sql.identifier(tableName, fieldName)),
  ", "
);

// sql.value will store the value and instead add a placeholder to the SQL
// statement, to ensure that no SQL injection can occur.
const sqlConditions = sql.query`created_at > NOW() - interval '3 years' and age > ${sql.value(
  22
)}`;

// This could be a full query, but we're going to embed it in another query safely
const innerQuery = sql.query`select ${sqlFields} from ${sql.identifier(
  tableName
)} where ${sqlConditions}`;

// Symbols are automatically assigned unique identifiers
const sqlAlias = sql.identifier(Symbol());

const query = sql.query`
with ${sqlAlias} as (${innerQuery})
select
  (select json_agg(row_to_json(${sqlAlias})) from ${sqlAlias}) as all_data,
  (select max(age) from ${sqlAlias}) as max_age
`;

// sql.compile compiles the query into an SQL statement and a list of values
const { text, values } = sql.compile(query);

console.log(text);
/* ->
with __local_0__ as (select "user"."name", "user"."age", "user"."height" from "user" where created_at > NOW() - interval '3 years' and age > $1)
select
  (select json_agg(row_to_json(__local_0__)) from __local_0__) as all_data,
  (select max(age) from __local_0__) as max_age
*/

console.log(values); // [ 22 ]

// Then to run the query using `pg` module, do something like:
// const { rows } = await pg.query(text, values);
```

## API

### `` sql.query`...` ``

Builds part of (or the whole of) an SQL query, safely interpretting the embedded expressions. If a non `sql.*` expression is passed in, e.g.:

<!-- skip-example -->

```js
sql.query`select ${1}`;
```

then an error will be thrown.

### `sql.identifier(ident, ...)`

Represents a safely escaped SQL identifier; if multiple arguments are passed
then each will be escaped and then they will be joined with dots (e.g.
`"schema"."table"."column"`).

### `sql.value(val)`

Represents an SQL value, will be replaced with a placeholder and the value collected up at compile time.

### `sql.literal(val)`

As `sql.value`, but in the case of very simple values may write them directly
to the SQL statement rather than using a placeholder. Should only be used with
data that is not sensitive and is trusted (not user-provided data), e.g. for
the key arguments to `json_build_object(key, val, key, val, ...)` which you
have produced.

### `sql.join(arrayOfFragments, delimeter)`

Joins an array of sql.query values using the delimeter (which is treated as a raw SQL string); e.g.

```js
const arrayOfSqlFields = ["a", "b", "c", "d"].map(n => sql.identifier(n));
sql.query`select ${sql.join(arrayOfSqlFields, ", ")}`; // -> select "a", "b", "c", "d"

const arrayOfSqlConditions = [
  sql.query`a = 1`,
  sql.query`b = 2`,
  sql.query`c = 3`,
];
sql.query`where (${sql.join(arrayOfSqlConditions, ") and (")})`; // -> where (a = 1) and (b = 2) and (c = 3)

const fragments = [
  { alias: "name", sqlFragment: sql.identifier("user", "name") },
  { alias: "age", sqlFragment: sql.identifier("user", "age") },
];
sql.query`
  json_build_object(
    ${sql.join(
      fragments.map(
        ({ sqlFragment, alias }) =>
          sql.query`${sql.literal(alias)}, ${sqlFragment}`
      ),
      ",\n"
    )}
  )`;

const arrayOfSqlInnerJoins = [
  sql.query`inner join bar on (bar.foo_id = foo.id)`,
  sql.query`inner join baz on (baz.bar_id = bar.id)`,
];
sql.query`select * from foo ${sql.join(arrayOfSqlInnerJoins, " ")}`;
// select * from foo inner join bar on (bar.foo_id = foo.id) inner join baz on (baz.bar_id = bar.id)
```

### `sql.compile(query)`

Compiles the query into an SQL statement and a list of values, ready to be executed

```js
const query = sql.query`...`;
const { text, values } = sql.compile(query);

// const { rows } = await pg.query(text, values);
```

## History

This is a replacement for [@calebmer's
`pg-sql`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/pg-sql), combining the additional work
that was done to it [in
postgraphql](https://github.com/postgraphql/postgraphql/blob/9c36d7e9b9ad74e665de18964fd2554f9f639903/src/postgres/utils/sql.ts)
and offering the following enhancements:

- Better development experience for people not using Flow/TypeScript (throws
  errors a lot earlier allowing you to catch issues at the source)
- Slightly more helpful error messages
- Uses a symbol-key on the query nodes to protect against an object
  accidentally being inserted verbatim and being treated as valid (because
  every Symbol is unique an attacker would need control of the code to get a
  reference to the Symbol in order to set it on an object (it cannot be
  serialised/deserialised via JSON or any other medium), and if the attacker
  has control of the code then you've already lost)
- Adds `sql.literal` which is similar to `sql.value` but when used with simple
  values can write the valid direct to the SQL statement. **USE WITH CAUTION**.
  The purpose for this is if you are using _trusted_ values (e.g. for the keys
  to
  [`json_build_object(...)`](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/9.6/static/functions-json.html))
  then debugging your SQL becomes a lot easier because fewer placeholders are
  used.

Commit message:

Note fragment alias for query
Per discord convo. Since `.fragment` seems to be more used in some parts of the main graphile docs, this will help people who are just quickly using CTRL-F to figure out what `.fragment` is

packages/pg-sql2/README.md, after:

# pg-sql2

Create SQL in a powerful and flexible manner without opening yourself to SQL
injection attacks using the power of ES6 tagged template literals.

A key aim of this library is to be very fast, if you think you can improve
performance further please open a PR!

<!-- SPONSORS_BEGIN -->

## Crowd-funded open-source software

To help us develop this software sustainably under the MIT license, we ask
all individuals and businesses that use it to help support its ongoing
maintenance and development via sponsorship.

### [Click here to find out more about sponsors and sponsorship.](https://www.graphile.org/sponsor/)

And please give some love to our featured sponsors 🤩:

<table><tr>
<td align="center"><a href="http://chads.website"><img src="https://graphile.org/images/sponsors/chadf.png" width="90" height="90" alt="Chad Furman" /><br />Chad Furman</a> *</td>
<td align="center"><a href="https://storyscript.com/?utm_source=postgraphile"><img src="https://graphile.org/images/sponsors/storyscript.png" width="90" height="90" alt="Storyscript" /><br />Storyscript</a> *</td>
<td align="center"><a href="https://postlight.com/?utm_source=graphile"><img src="https://graphile.org/images/sponsors/postlight.jpg" width="90" height="90" alt="Postlight" /><br />Postlight</a> *</td>
<td align="center"><a href="https://surge.io/"><img src="https://graphile.org/images/sponsors/surge.png" width="90" height="90" alt="Surge.io" /><br />Surge.io</a> *</td>
</tr></table>

<em>\* Sponsors the entire Graphile suite</em>

<!-- SPONSORS_END -->

## Usage

```js
const sql = require("pg-sql2");
// or import sql from 'pg-sql2';

const tableName = "user";
const fields = ["name", "age", "height"];

// sql.join is used to join fragments with a common separator, NOT to join tables!
const sqlFields = sql.join(
  // sql.identifier safely escapes arguments and joins them with dots
  fields.map(fieldName => sql.identifier(tableName, fieldName)),
  ", "
);

// sql.value will store the value and instead add a placeholder to the SQL
// statement, to ensure that no SQL injection can occur.
const sqlConditions = sql.query`created_at > NOW() - interval '3 years' and age > ${sql.value(
  22
)}`;

// This could be a full query, but we're going to embed it in another query safely
const innerQuery = sql.query`select ${sqlFields} from ${sql.identifier(
  tableName
)} where ${sqlConditions}`;

// Symbols are automatically assigned unique identifiers
const sqlAlias = sql.identifier(Symbol());

const query = sql.query`
with ${sqlAlias} as (${innerQuery})
select
  (select json_agg(row_to_json(${sqlAlias})) from ${sqlAlias}) as all_data,
  (select max(age) from ${sqlAlias}) as max_age
`;

// sql.compile compiles the query into an SQL statement and a list of values
const { text, values } = sql.compile(query);

console.log(text);
/* ->
with __local_0__ as (select "user"."name", "user"."age", "user"."height" from "user" where created_at > NOW() - interval '3 years' and age > $1)
select
  (select json_agg(row_to_json(__local_0__)) from __local_0__) as all_data,
  (select max(age) from __local_0__) as max_age
*/

console.log(values); // [ 22 ]

// Then to run the query using `pg` module, do something like:
// const { rows } = await pg.query(text, values);
```

## API

### `` sql.query`...` ``

Builds part of (or the whole of) an SQL query, safely interpretting the embedded expressions. If a non `sql.*` expression is passed in, e.g.:

<!-- skip-example -->

```js
sql.query`select ${1}`;
```

then an error will be thrown. Also accessible by the alias `sql.fragment`.

### `sql.identifier(ident, ...)`

Represents a safely escaped SQL identifier; if multiple arguments are passed
then each will be escaped and then they will be joined with dots (e.g.
`"schema"."table"."column"`).

### `sql.value(val)`

Represents an SQL value, will be replaced with a placeholder and the value collected up at compile time.

### `sql.literal(val)`

As `sql.value`, but in the case of very simple values may write them directly
to the SQL statement rather than using a placeholder. Should only be used with
data that is not sensitive and is trusted (not user-provided data), e.g. for
the key arguments to `json_build_object(key, val, key, val, ...)` which you
have produced.

### `sql.join(arrayOfFragments, delimeter)`

Joins an array of sql.query values using the delimeter (which is treated as a raw SQL string); e.g.

```js
const arrayOfSqlFields = ["a", "b", "c", "d"].map(n => sql.identifier(n));
sql.query`select ${sql.join(arrayOfSqlFields, ", ")}`; // -> select "a", "b", "c", "d"

const arrayOfSqlConditions = [
  sql.query`a = 1`,
  sql.query`b = 2`,
  sql.query`c = 3`,
];
sql.query`where (${sql.join(arrayOfSqlConditions, ") and (")})`; // -> where (a = 1) and (b = 2) and (c = 3)

const fragments = [
  { alias: "name", sqlFragment: sql.identifier("user", "name") },
  { alias: "age", sqlFragment: sql.identifier("user", "age") },
];
sql.query`
  json_build_object(
    ${sql.join(
      fragments.map(
        ({ sqlFragment, alias }) =>
          sql.query`${sql.literal(alias)}, ${sqlFragment}`
      ),
      ",\n"
    )}
  )`;

const arrayOfSqlInnerJoins = [
  sql.query`inner join bar on (bar.foo_id = foo.id)`,
  sql.query`inner join baz on (baz.bar_id = bar.id)`,
];
sql.query`select * from foo ${sql.join(arrayOfSqlInnerJoins, " ")}`;
// select * from foo inner join bar on (bar.foo_id = foo.id) inner join baz on (baz.bar_id = bar.id)
```

### `sql.compile(query)`

Compiles the query into an SQL statement and a list of values, ready to be executed

```js
const query = sql.query`...`;
const { text, values } = sql.compile(query);

// const { rows } = await pg.query(text, values);
```

## History

This is a replacement for [@calebmer's
`pg-sql`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/pg-sql), combining the additional work
that was done to it [in
postgraphql](https://github.com/postgraphql/postgraphql/blob/9c36d7e9b9ad74e665de18964fd2554f9f639903/src/postgres/utils/sql.ts)
and offering the following enhancements:

- Better development experience for people not using Flow/TypeScript (throws
  errors a lot earlier allowing you to catch issues at the source)
- Slightly more helpful error messages
- Uses a symbol-key on the query nodes to protect against an object
  accidentally being inserted verbatim and being treated as valid (because
  every Symbol is unique an attacker would need control of the code to get a
  reference to the Symbol in order to set it on an object (it cannot be
  serialised/deserialised via JSON or any other medium), and if the attacker
  has control of the code then you've already lost)
- Adds `sql.literal` which is similar to `sql.value` but when used with simple
  values can write the valid direct to the SQL statement. **USE WITH CAUTION**.
  The purpose for this is if you are using _trusted_ values (e.g. for the keys
  to
  [`json_build_object(...)`](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/9.6/static/functions-json.html))
  then debugging your SQL becomes a lot easier because fewer placeholders are
  used.
